##HIPAA Release of Information Form – Emaan Syed
I created an app that will automate a HIPAA release form for the user to download through PDF and send via fax to a speficified hospital as to reduce the amount of time and manpower required in manually filling out and signing a HIPAA release form, and going back to a physical office to fax the form to the specified hospitals. User must input the required client information, and include the client's signature which can be done electronically on a phone or laptop, and send off the HIPAA release form to the medical institution of their choosing. The link to the Community Lawyer App can be found at https://emaansyed.github.io/ctl_final/link

##Framing
Professor Chris Dearborn is the clinic professor of Suffolk Defenders Clinic. Professor Dearborn had came up with the idea of automating the HIPAA form that the Defenders Clinic and Juvenile Defenders Clinic student attorneys use for HIPAA Release of medical information for clients. Usually a clinic student must manually go to their client to fill out and sign a HIPAA form, then go back to the clinic office and fax the form to a specific hospital, and usually physically go to the hosipital to obtain the medical information. In the Juvenile Defenders Clinic, an extra layer is added to the form with a requirement for a parent signature, which could add another day to the process to track down a parent that was not present at court. The whole process takes hours for clinic students and has a lot of potential for automation and ease on the users.
Professor Dearborn also thought about having this app used not only clinic-wide, but throughout the state for any attorney with low-income clients to use.
I created an app to allow for the form to be accessed on phone or computer, and for the user to have their clients sign the form in person, perhaps at the court, from the touch screen of their phone. The app then can be faxed to a hospital from the app using phaxio through zapier, the app can also be downloaded and emailed to the user for record-keeping. The app takes a total of 5minutes to complete and fax, compared to an hours-long process that could last several days to reach the client or guardian for a signature. The app also has an option to save and continue if another signature is required by a parent not present at the time the client was signing.

##Research
First I met with Professor Dearborn to see which hospitals are frequented by his clients and what facilities he normally must send out HIPAA release forms to. Professor Dearborn included the local Boston hospitals: BMC, Tufts, MGH, Brigham and Women's, Children's Hopsital, and state mental facilities such as the Lindemann Center, Bridgewater State Hospital, and MASAC.
I then reached out to each hospital and mental facility listed asking if they require their patients to fill out a seperate HIPAA form, or if the Suffolk Clinic HIPAA form was acceptable to use.
Some hospitals asked for me to email the Suffolk Defenders form for review to see if they would take the clinic form, others just asked if the essentials of HIPAA release were included on the clinic form, including patient name, DOB, signature, end date of medical release, type of information to be released.
Outside of the large hospitals, the mental facilities would take the generic Suffolk Defenders HIPAA form, so I essentially needed to automate each large Hospital HIPAA form, a form from each of the clinics, and a generic HIPAA form for use for attorneys outside of the Suffolk Clinics. After speaking with each hospital, I compiled a list of forms I needed to automate.
Before I began autmoating, there was a question of whether the social security number was required on the HIPAA release form. The Suffolk Defenders and Juvenile Defenders both had options to include the social security number, while the hospital forms did not. Including the social security number would add an extra layer of complicated security protocol to my app, so I then called every hospital from before asking if a social security number is required. Each hospital and mental health facility I spoke with replied that the patient social security number was not required. After speaking with Professor Dearborn and Professor Colarusso, I decided to include an option to fill in the client's social security number, and not having to go through the extra security protocalls that would be in place if the social security number was to be included.

##Ideation & Prototyping
I first created a gmail account called HIPAAFORMAPP@gmail.com to create accounts and work on my project. I then used that account to create a community lawyer account to create the app, and a Zapier account and Phaxio account to automate the app to fax to a hospital via email. 
For the PDF form automation, I narrowed my options to Community Lawyer and DocAssemble. DocAssemble was not as user-friendly as Community Lawyer, and after having more experience and familiarity with Community Lawyer, I chose to create the form through their website.
I began automating the Suffolk Defenders HIPAA form, and the Suffolk Juvenile Defenders forms, as these had the lease amount of work to be accomplished, and allowed me to fully understand the use of text boxes, checkboxes, commands, signature feature, pdf download, email attatchments and overall function of the website. I then linked my Community Lawyer account with my Zapier account and Phaxio account. The email to send a fax is hipaafax.3eaqne@zapiermail.com, the subject line must include the fax number of the hospital with not dashes. I automated each form to automatically prompt an email to send to a specific hospital fax number, or to manually enter the fax number for a different medical center.
After perfecting my technique, I began to incorporate feedback before I continued autmoating the more complicated Hospital forms.

##User Testing
I created my app and sent it out to clinic students (the main end user) for their feedback to be filled out in a google form. 
I also submitted my form to Professor Dearborn for his feedback on the first version of the app.
The test user feedback can be found on:https://emaansyed.github.io/ctl_final/user_feedback
Professor Dearborn's feedback can be found at :https://emaansyed.github.io/ctl_final/client_feedback


###Refinement
I incorporated user feedback into refining the app, making the app user-friendly and fixing spelling mistakes. I had not originally included a fax coversheet in my first app, so I had to re-do many of my PDFs that were automated to include the fax coversheet in a single PDF. The Phaxio app cannot fax multiple PDFs, so the fax coversheet must be in the same PDF.


##Intro Pitch
The PowerPoint used for my intro pitch can be found at: https://emaansyed.github.io/ctl_final/HIPAA%20App%20presentation%20Emaan.pptx
In my powerpoint I included the problems with the current manual form method, ideas of creation of the app, my plan, and ultimate goal for the end user to use the app and save hours of running around collecting signatures. I focused on what the issue was, my plan to solve it, and ultimately what the app is envisioned to become.


##Complexity/Robustness
The Community Lawyer app is robust and complex, espesially when incorporating the Hospital HIPAA release forms, and including email and download, while decreaing the amount of times user must repeat information. I strived to create the least amount of question and signature black for all the apps, so most apps can share the same question blocks, for ease of the next individual to takeover the community lawyer app and provide any maintenence if necessary.

##Impact & Efficiencies
Due to the product's infancy, outside of testing, this app has yet to be used in the real world to send emails and faxes. However, the app does allow for a PDF download of the completed form, currently students can save the form and send the form through their email accounts on their form instead of waiting on an account with Community Lawyer and Phaxio to get funded. Once the account recieve funding, the fax feature will be available to the clinic users.

##Fit/Completeness
The HIPAA App has cut down the time required to fill out a HIPAA form, have a client and or guardian sign the form, and fax the HIPAA form from hours to under 5 minutes total. My client wanted an app that would automate the HIPAA form, with the ability for clients to sign on the phone in places such as a courtroom, and to save time from going to a physical place to fax the HIPAA Realease to hospitals. The HIPAA Release App has accomplished the goals of my client.


##Documentation
All documentation of the app is on here, the link to the community lawyer app is here: https://emaansyed.github.io/ctl_final/link

##Real World Viability
Due to the funds requirement from both Community Lawyer to send an email, and Phaxio to send a fax, I have not been able to test out the app until Suffolk can fund the app to test out the product. Once funded, the app will take a manual task that took hours out of the day, to a simple form that can be signed online in under 5 minutes. The app can be used by other lawyers with low-income clients, however the Suffolk Law Clinic department would have to decide if they would be ok with funding for the email and faxing of forms outside of Suffolk clinic clients. However, a free version can still be included in which any user no matter their affiliation can at least download the completed PDF on their phone or computer and fax on their own, or use their own email faxing service.
Professor Dearborn will be emailing Professor Colarrusso later on Wednesday night his letter of satisfaction.

##Sustainability
There will be a fund requirement, an initial funding of $500 split to Community Lawyer and Phaxio could cover over 1-3 years worth of clinic HIPAA Release email and faxing. This app is run via Community Lawyer account, Zapier Account, Phaxio Account, and the specified Gmail account. The app can be continued to be minimally maintained or added to by whomever has access to the account information. The App could be given to a third party that has a larger funding for access to legal justice which can fund the app emailing and faxing and allow all Law clinics and lawyers in the Boston area to utilize for free. The App can also just be used by Suffolk Law clinic students until further funding for attorneys outside the university to utilize is managed.
Professor Dearborn will be emailing Professor Colarrusso later on Wednesday night his plans for continued upkeep of the app.
